Title: How I'd Use ChatGPT for SEO in 2026

Source: YouTube - @nathangotch

Transcript - I'm going to show you 10 proven ways to
use chat GBT for SEO without spamming or
doing anything risky. And these
techniques will save you a massive
amount of time and effort in your SEO
campaigns. My name is Nathan Gotch and
I've led hundreds of successful SEO
campaigns over the last decade and I'm
the CEO of Rankability, a top AI SEO
software company. And let's start with
number one, which is filter through a
huge list of keywords based on
relevance. So start by going into a
keyword research tool. So in this case,
I'm just going to use Rankability and go
ahead and download the keyword list that
you're trying to filter through. So in
this case, I'll just copy them and then
we're going to go over to Chat GBT. And
what I'm going to do is use this very
simple prompt. And I'll have all these
prompts below the video. But for now,
just let me walk you through this real
quickly. So essentially what we're
trying to do is we're trying to take
this huge list of let's say 400 keywords
and narrow it down into the most
relevant keywords to pursue. And this is
kind of just stage one of filtering
through keywords, but it's the most
important because we want to see how
close is this keyword to actually making
us money in this business. Okay? And the
shorter that gap is, the better it's
going to be. The more the longer that
gap is, the further away someone is to
actually making a buying decision, the
worse that keyword is going to be and
the lower priority that it should be. So
in this case, you can see here you're
going to see what the company sales
sells. So in this case is bankruptcy
lawyer in Atlanta. And then we're going
to go ahead and just paste in those
keywords. Okay, so it thought for about
2 minutes and 40 seconds and you can see
it took that huge list of keywords and
assigned that relevant score. Chat GBT
SEO technique number two is to group
your keywords by clusters. So now you
have your keyword relevance. Now, what
you want to do is take all these
keywords and only look at the keywords
that have good relevance and then put
them into into buckets and clusters
because basically when you do SEO, you
really want to focus on one cluster at a
time. You don't want to just be
spreading yourself across a bunch of
different irrelevant topics. You want to
focus in on one cluster, go a mile deep
on that cluster, and then move on to the
next one. This is how you're going to
build really good performance. So, you
can see here what I said is just create
categories clusters for this keyword
set. And then basically what we're doing
is having it put it into a table. So now
you can see it's going to go ahead and
build this for us and it's going to put
it all into the appropriate categories
and clusters. Putting each of these
topics into the right buckets. And then
we're going to attack that bucket with
all of our focus and all of our effort.
When we finish one bucket, we're going
to move on to the next bucket. And then
these will all these clusters will all
link to each other. And this is how you
build real topic authority on your
website. And then what you want to do is
after you've attacked all these topics
on your website, then you want to take
these same exact topics and attack them
on YouTube and LinkedIn and every other
place you're creating content. And now
for chat GBT SEO technique number three,
which is to create new content that
ranks. So the first thing you want to do
is go into chat GBT. And what you're
going to have ChatGBT do is a couple
things. Number one, and this is under
the assumption that we're creating a
commercial page on the local level, but
this would apply to any commercial page
in any industry. Okay? So this case,
we're going to do HBAC. And what we're
going to do is we're going to have it
crawl a specific website here. So this
is going to be the website that we're
going to be creating a commercial page
on. And you can see crawl this HBAC
business. You put in the root domain
like this. And then extract their unique
selling propositions testimonials and
turn it into a prompt for Rankabil's AI
writer context window. And then you put
the primary keyword in there and then
say what what the intent of the of the
page is. Okay? So in this case going to
be commercial intent. Now, here's the
most important part. Make sure that you
use the thinking model in chat GBT.
Okay? So, you can see here I have
selected the thinking model and I didn't
do extended thinking. I just did the
standard thinking for this one. That's
all you really need. And the reason this
is really critical because if you don't
do this, it's it may not be as accurate.
So, what you'll see here, if you click
on thought for 20 seconds, you can see
that it actually went and crawled this
website. And this is really critical. we
need to have it go and retrieve this
information. So, what we're doing here
is instead of just creating generic AI
content, what we're doing is we're we're
adding context that makes this content
really unique to this business. Okay?
And that's really important when you're
building commercial page. It should be
relevant to your business because you're
trying to persuade someone to become a
lead or a customer. Okay? So, that is
the idea. So, we want to have that
context. You don't just want to create
generic content. We're going to go in
here. We're going to create a new piece
of content. We're going to go ahead and
click uh use AI generated content. Go
ahead and run this through. This will be
a service page. And then we go ahead and
grab uh go ahead and grab this critical
information about this business. Okay.
So, we're going to go ahead and copy
this and we're going to put this into
the context window. All right. So, the
article is ready. We'll go ahead and
just click through and we should see
that it is already optimized and ready
for the editorial process. Jack GBT SEO
method number four is to optimize
existing content. So the easiest way to
optimize existing pages is to simply
just go into the content optimizer to
import URL content inside of
Rankability, enter the keyword phrase,
and then enter the URL that you want to
optimize or improve and then just run
that optimizer. Okay, so now the report
is done. So we'll go ahead and just
click through and we're going to be able
to immediately see the gaps that this
page has. And that's really what we want
to see is like, you know, before I
showed you a page that's optimized very
well that we built from scratch. We want
to get to this point with any existing
page that we have. So we can see here
we've got tons of opportunities to
attack some of these topics and
ultimately make this page more relevant.
Now, funny enough, this page is, you
know, 1,800 words, but it's just not
relevant, right? So the words don't make
the page perform well. The relevance
makes the page perform well in search.
Okay, that's what matters. So, let's go
ahead and grab this content and we're
actually going to take this content and
we're going to copy it over and we're
going to put it into chat GBT. Okay, so
we're going to revise this copy and
we're going to put this in here like
this and then we'll also say and cover
all the critical related topics. Okay,
so we're going to go back in here. We
can actually just sort this by
relevance. We're going to copy this and
then we'll go ahead and just paste this
into chat GPT. Okay, so as you can see,
this took about 10 seconds for chat GPT
to do this. So, we copy this and now
we're going to go ahead and see if it
made a big improvement. So, we're at
about a 21, the original asset. We're
going to go over here. We're going to
paste in this version. And it got to a
36. Okay, so didn't quite cover all the
topics that it needed to. So, that means
all we have to do now is we're going to
go back over here and go to unused.
Okay, and we're just going to copy
these. And when you copy these over,
it's only going to copy over the unused
keywords. We're going to go back to
check GPT and we're going to say revise
to make sure you cover all of these
critical topics. We actually don't have
to say all. We can say cover most of
these critical topics. Okay, we'll give
it some freedom to choose what it should
cover. Okay, so it took about 12 seconds
to revise that copy. So, let's see how
much better this performs now uh as far
as relevance. So, we got it up to a 36
originally. uh as in our first draft.
We'll see how the second draft of this
performs and we got up to a 60. Okay.
So, now we're really in a spot where,
you know, you could theoretically do
another run and like you try to go to
the next level with this, but honestly,
you you probably could be fine with just
at a 60, right? I mean, I do typically
recommend at least hitting the optimal,
but in this scenario, we basically took
it from I think about a 20 something up
to a 60. That means we've we've uh more
than doubled actually we've tripled the
relevance of this page. Okay. So I would
think in this case this would be uh
enough relevance to launch and see how
it performs and if it still needs a
little bit more then you can take it to
you know another level. So right here
I'd be pretty satisfied with this. And
then now I just focus on making sure
that this page is very high quality.
It's designed well. It's got that nice
commercial structure so it can actually
drive conversions. and then it should be
good to go. And now for number five,
which is to create schema markup. So at
this point, it's no secret that chat GBT
can create schema markup for you. Now
the initial schema that you get is
usually got some it's pretty templated.
It it needs some work. Okay, so you'll
see here as I go through this process
iterating on this schema. So what I did
here is I said add all reviews from G2
and Capterara. So you can see here over
in the activity, it actually went
through and crawled all of these
reviews. Okay, crawled them all and then
updated this schema and now it's got
really, you know, very rich schema that
we can add to the page itself. So, I
just go into replet and then I'm just
going to paste this in. Replet will go
update this review page schema. Okay, so
finish this schema markup and we can see
here we'll go ahead and refresh this and
we'll see if we go to the builder, we'll
see that it I had to adjust it to the
product schema, but you can see here
it's got all the schema markup in here
and it's good to go. So, this just makes
this page more rich specifically for
traditional search engines. There's not
a whole lot of evidence that AI
platforms use this as of right now, but
we do know that traditional search
engines do likely use schema markup.
Moving on to number six, which is to
create datadriven content. Number one,
make sure you pick the right model. So,
for this one, I did the thinking model
and I did extended thinking for this.
Okay? So, the most extreme thinking you
can use other than the research grade
one. Okay? So what you can see here is I
just said research this topic and share
your findings. Okay, that's how you want
to start with this. Now you can see you
know yes you could do this yourself. You
could manually research this topic. But
the advantage here is that when we click
on the reasoning process you can see
what it goes through and ultimately how
many sources it digs through. So it's
essentially doing what we used to do by
opening up you know a 100 tabs and
filtering through the information trying
to find the answer. Uh it's doing it in
2 minutes. Okay. Or give or take two or
three minutes. Uh so analyzing uh all of
these sources, hundreds of sources in
about three minutes and synthesizing
that information for you. I mean it's
pretty crazy. So what we can see here
though is all right, we've got the we've
got the information. Now what we can do
is we can actually take this information
and and convert it into an article. But
this is where we take it to the next
level. Okay. So instead of just taking
this and just like you know creating an
article like this directly from this you
layer on rankability as well. So that
way you've got this unique curated data
also with the really good relevance. So
you can see what I did here is I go
ahead and just copy over. So I did is
dwell time a Google ranking factor. Copy
over these topics and then we're going
to go back in here and you'll see I'm
going to say write an article explaining
your findings. Mention the source and
make sure you cover these critical
topics. Okay. So, it's going to cover
these topics. Um, and notice I don't
give it a word count target. I don't
usually give it word count targets
anymore. I just let it go where it wants
to go cuz I give it the topics to run
with and then let the AI determine how
much depth you should go into each kind
of area. Okay? And sometimes you
obviously have to make adjustments, but
at least initially, let it just do its
thing. Okay? And you can see here
already it built out an asset pretty
quickly. Okay? But it's it's missing a
title. It's it needs a little bit of
work. So, I had to do a quick revision.
Um, you can see here now we've got the
actual title in here. So, we'll go and
just paste this title into rankability
and now we've got uh, you know, we're
already rank we've got the most
important topic already in here. So,
obviously the score goes up a lot cuz
having it in the title, we've personally
we've made it that way so that you get
more points if it's in the actual title
cuz it's really critical. Okay, so short
answer you can see here. So we'll go and
paste this over just copy this uh what
it built and we'll see how this draft
did uh and we'll take a look. So uh on
the first try already highly highly
relevant and so for us from here
basically all we would do is we take
this content and then we would turn it
into something uh you know much more
digestible and readable. Uh show images
obviously have all of our citations. Um,
and then we've already basically done
all the heavy lifting of this work. And
now for number seven, which is to
generate linkbait ideas. So I'll have
this prompt below the video, but
basically what you can do is I created a
little syntax. Uh, I built this uh quite
some time ago. And basically what it's
going to do is you could take this
little syntax and just update this
section here, which is the type of
business that you're trying to create
link bait for, and then the location if
if it's local, assuming it's local. And
then you're going to run this through.
And once again, use the thinking model
cuz it tends to be a little bit better.
And then we can go and look at all the
different types of link bait that it's
going to build. The reason why we're
using this syntax here is because these
are all ideas that are proven to be
linkable. Okay, very proven linkability
either based on emotion or based on a
particular content framework. So, this
is just a really quick way to just get
tons of good ideas that then you can run
with and then you can keep expanding on
these ideas, right? you look at some of
these and just go deeper and deeper into
these ideas. Moving on to number eight,
which is to create free tools. And what
I did is I forced chat GBT to go and
research the proper structure and guide
guidelines for this specific standard.
And then I actually having it build the
tool itself. So you can see here in
about 1 minute and 22 sec or 1 minute
and 26 seconds. Man, it's a sometimes it
blows my mind how quickly it does stuff
like this. But you can see here, you
know, it it built out the HTML. Uh, it
even built out the CSS and the
JavaScript, everything. It's good to go
completely. So, all I have to do is go
over here and look at preview. And you
can see, uh, it's already built this
little basic tool. Okay? Like, no
problem at all. So, and this is like a
minute and 20, you know, a minute of
work. So, obviously, you're going to
work with this, improve it, test it,
make sure it works, and then and then
deploy it on the website. But once
again, just showing how quickly we can
create linkbait is is just it's never
been this easy. And now for chat GBT SEO
technique number nine, which is turning
it into your full-time link builder. So
I've showed already many times on my
channel how you can use agents to go and
do link prospecting for you. And so at
this point, once again, there's just no
good reason for you to be going into
Google and just opening up a bunch of
link prospects when the agent can do
this for you. And in fact, the agent
right now, I've got a little post-it
note here. um the agent on the pro mode,
you can do up to 40 agent requests a
month. 40 requests. So that means you
could do 40 prospecting campaigns every
single month. So think about you could
basically tap out an entire industry in
one month if you maximize all of your
credits with the agent mode inside of
chat GBT. So maximize this stuff. What I
did here is I'll have this problem below
the video, but basically I'm looking for
listicles, but this is gives you the
nice list of prospects to work with. And
you can actually have the agent go and
find the emails or contact information
as well. And moving on to number 10,
which is to track your chat GBT SEO
performance. So, I actually have a brand
new training dedicated to AI search
analytics and tracking. But just real
quick, I'll give you a real quick kind
of 101 tutorial here, which is go and
create this use this very simple prompt
to create 10 synthetic prompts and use a
seed like I'm using. So, plumber in
Chesterfield, Missouri. And then what
you'll do is have ChatGBT create these
synthetic prompts for you. Okay? So,
then just grab one of these prompts and
then what you want to do next is go and
create a dedicated testing account
inside of ChatGBT. So, we have a
dedicated email that we use for the
testing. go in here and then you can see
we're going to put this prompt in and
this is uh you know this is actually
spelled wrong but the top 10 best
plumbers in Chesterfield, Missouri uh
for emergency leaks right now. So it's
important to mention right now because
it's going to force chat GBT to use
retrieval and we need it to use
retrieval to get the most current
information. So by saying right now or
2025 or you know you get really specific
but you want to force it to use
retrieval and then from here what you're
doing is seeing is our brand actually
appearing in this generated response. So
it's a it's a it's a binary kind of
question. It's a one or a zero. So one
yes zero no. Okay that's the first part.
Then the second part is what position
are we in? So if we are here where are
we showing up on this list? And this is
similar to, you know, what we're used to
with SEO, which is like the top ranking
results get all, you know, get all the
visibility. So, you want to be
recommended higher on this list because,
uh, you know, most people are not going
to remember you if you're somewhere in
the middle, even at the end. Okay? So,
there's ways to push this up more, but
the point is just to establish
benchmarks. Those two things are the
most important. Like, number one, are we
mentioned? Number two, what's our
position? Then what you want to do is
you want to use all of those synthetic
prompts and you want to run these across
uh run all of these that all have
different intent and then get a kind of
a cumulative idea of your overall brand
visibility across chat GPT. Okay, that's
what you want to do. You need to have a
lot of coverage. If you just do one,
that's not going to give you a lot of
information. You want to see ultimately
how visible you are across all of these
prompts and then ultimately what your
position is across all these prompts.
And that will give you a really nice
idea. uh and ultimately a good place to
begin working from to improve your
visibility. So that's just a taste of
what's possible. If you want more chat
GBT SEO systems, apply for Rankability
Academy and watch the next video to
learn how to get ChatGBT to recommend
your business or your client's business.
